
May 15 – Project Mercury: NASA launches Gordon Cooper on Mercury-Atlas 9, the last mission (on June 12 NASA Administrator James E. Webb tells Congress the program is complete).

June 13
The cancellation of Mercury-Atlas 10 effectively ends the United States' manned spaceflight Project Mercury.

1963-023	16.06.1963	Vostok 6 (Vostok-3KA #8)	Vostok-K	Ba LC-1/5
June 16, 1963	First woman in space (Valentina Tereshkova)
First civilian in space	Vostok 6	

June 19, 1963	Five-day human spaceflight record	Vostok 5	
June 19 – Valentina Tereshkova the first woman in space, returns to Earth.

It's June 16, 1963 and we have a new first underway. This is Vostok 6, and in the capsule is Valentina Tereshkova. She is about to be the first woman into space, another first for the Soviet Union. The United States had a distinctly male-centric view of difficult physical tasks, such as for example spaceflight. The general male attitude in the U.S. during this time period was that a woman's place was in the home, and that they were too fragile for space. The male-dominated United States was very frustrating for woman like, for example, Trudy Cooper who had been a flight instructor. She tried very hard to get NASA to allow woman, and she wanted to be an astronaut herself, but NASA continually refused. Instead, Valentina shall be the first woman in space, and shatter any notions that woman couldn't handle the trip, even though I don't think she'd have called the trip pleasant. Despite proving it was possible, no other woman would go to space for another 19 years.

Now, remember, I need to start skipping things here and there, especially when they are not major Firsts in some way. Going back to Trudy Cooper for a second, her husband was Gordon Cooper, who was the last Mercury astronaut into space, and he launched in Mercury-Atlas 9 one month before this flight of  Valentina in Vostok 6. Cooper's flight would end up being the last of the Mercury program because the 10th launch was cancelled 3 days before Valentina's flight. NASA administrator James E. Webb went before congress and said the program was complete, and they started focusing on upcoming Gemini flights instead.

As for Valentina, you might be remembering that last episode had Vostoks 3 and 4. What happened to 5? Well 5 was launched 2 days before this, but I am not going to show it. It's another of the flights we need to skip so that we can have enough time to watch all the major Firsts. Just assume cosmonaut Valery Bykovsky is already in orbit right now, in Vostok 5. Valentina's flight is targeting Vostok 5 to attempt another simulated rendezvous. Like 3 and 4 bnefore this, it's just a really accurate launch, and not really a rendezvous. Also like 3 and 4 before this, it succeeds. Valentina and Bykovsky are able to remain in radio contact, and later when they reenter they are only 3 hours apart, which basically means they were still near each other but Bykovsky got to orbit 2 more times before his retros were fired.

Neither Bykovsky nor Valentina's flight was entirel;y pleasant. Bykovsky had a problem with his waste collection system. I think you can imagine what that might mean. Valentina got space sick and had other aches nad pains, but didn't want to report the full extent of her status, which probably means she was really not doing well at all.

Valentina was actually a civilan. She was originally a textile factory assembly worker, and was selected from a candidate pool of over 400 female applicants. So she also because the first civilian in space, and as I said earlier Bykovsky set the new duration record after his 5-day flight.

Valentina came down first, and of course ejected and parachuted to the group as you did with these missions. That's ok becuase she was a master skydiver, which was a big part of why she had been selected for this flight.

Due to solar flare activity and an unstable orbit, Bykovsky's flight that was supposed to stay up 8 days was brought back after only 5. Nonetheless, his flight remains the record for SOLO manned spaceflight since all future launches were either shorter or not solo.

Valentina went on to marry the cosmonaut who was in the Vostok 3 capsule from the last episode, Andriyan Nikolayev.

-----------------------------------------------------

Now we may return to the month after their landings. We return to the B-52 and X-15 that were taking off at the beginning. We're back in the united states, in Nevada. This is not the real launch site, but it is hte real drop site, and I didn't feel like flying the B-52 for an hour to get it into position, so I built my own airport at the same location that the X-15 was dropped.

Joseph Walker is the X-15 test pilot today. This is the 90th flight of the X-15, and United States iks about to becone the first to cross the Karman line with a space plane.

Some of you may have wondered what happened to the first 89 X-15 flights, or for that matter the entire X-1 program. Well the X-1 would certainly be a major First milestone if this series were about aircraft history. 
Let me pull in my landing gear and then I'll tell you the story.
The X-1 was the first plane to break the sound barrier with test pilot Chuck Yeager. The X-1 development was helpful for subsequent X-craft projects, but it did not itself do anything related to space. The X-1 top speed was 650 m/s and its highest alitutude was 28 km which was FAR below the 100 kmn altitude required for this series. I'm therefore giving it just a James Burke Connections-style passing reference as a link to the X-15, and I won't be building one.

Well now, I have pulled the B-52 nose up to give myself time to switch between the crafts. In reality this would not be needed but in KSP I need a moment to switch over and gain control, and fire the XLR-99 engine. We'll burn almost 7 tons of propellant in about 80 seconds at 250 kN to give ourselves the thrust we need to break the Karman line.

Walker's flight went to 106 km. Mine will go to 107, so it was pretty close.

Going back, as for the first 89 X-15 flights, they strarted 4 years ago while the plane was being developed by North American Aviation. Their test pilot was Scott Crossfield, so he had the first 8 flights. Walkewr got in on the action at flight 9 three years ago. Neil Armstrong flew flight 31 at the end of 1960. Throughout all of these early flight they were not really going much faster or higher than an X-1. The X-15 started with a different engine, an XLR11, for 25 flights. On the 26th they switch to the engine I'm using now, the XLR99. Then things started getting faster. THey were reacing mach 4 to 5 regularly. They were not re4ally going a LOT higher. Every now and then they'd reach 60-80 km. Walker had already flown the X-15 23 times before today.

I've started my reentry now. I have flown this craft three times myself. For two of them I took off from the runway just for testing. I found that for me it flies best with a 45 degree nose down angle until very close to the ground. At that point I flare up, drop the rear tail from under the craft so that the rear skids can touch the ground, and glide to a landing. When I tried gliding too early, I stalled and fell out of the sky. I also tried some skids, like on the real X-15, instead of real wheels, but the wheels just do a lot better in KSP for landing.

One other quirk of this flight is you'll see the tail decouples but doesn't fall away immediately. Once it does, it actually flies ahead of the craft and back up again. But it doesn't affect the landing, so I paid it no mind. 
The X-15 would bve flown 199 times, with the last one in 1968 by Bill Dana. It went through a few varaitions, and I've mixed two of those  varaitions into my replica.

We're almost to the ground now. The real one landed at Rogers Dry Lake, Edwards Air Force Base, in California, roughly 12 minutes after being dropped over Nevada.

July 19, 1963	First reusable piloted spacecraft (X-15, suborbital)		X-15 Flight 90-NASA
July 19 – American test pilot Joe Walker, flying the X-15, reaches an altitude of 65.8 miles (105.9 kilometers), making it a sub-orbital spaceflight by recognized international standards.

July 26, 1963	First geosynchronous satellite		Syncom 2-NASA

August 28 – Martin Luther King Jr. delivers his "I Have a Dream" speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to an audience of at least 250,000, during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.

November 10 – Malcolm X makes an historic speech in Detroit, Michigan ("Message to the Grass Roots").

November 22
Assassination of John F. Kennedy: In a motorcade in Dallas, Texas, United States President John F. Kennedy is shot by Lee Harvey Oswald, and Governor of Texas John Connally is seriously wounded. A few hours later new President Lyndon B. Johnson is sworn in aboard Air Force One, as Kennedy's body is flown back to Washington, D.C. All television coverage for the next 4 days is devoted to the assassination and its aftermath, the November 24 procession of the horsedrawn casket to the United States Capitol rotunda, and the funeral. Stores and businesses shut down for the entire weekend and Monday, in tribute.

November 24
Lee Harvey Oswald, assassin of John F. Kennedy, is shot dead by Jack Ruby in Dallas, an event seen on live national television. Later that night, a hastily arranged program, A Tribute to John F. Kennedy from the Arts, featuring actors, opera singers, and noted writers, all performing dramatic readings and/or music, is telecast on ABC-TV.

December 5, 1963	First satellite navigation system		NAVSAT-USN
