Flyby Finder, a tool  for Kerbal Space Program
by user PLAD 2015
Version V0.80RSS for Real Solar System mod only  (Alpha) Instructions Aug 22, 2015

Installation-
  It's just an .exe file, so unzip and run Flyby080RSS.exe. (It should show as 438KB when uncompressed). 

Running it-
1)  Select 3, 4 or 5 planets you want to "Start At", fly by ("1st Encounter"), and end at ("2nd Encounter") or end at (3rd Encounter)or end at ("4th encounter") using the drop-down lists. Note that it defaults to Earth, and Venus if you pick nothing. It is best to find flybys with only 3 planets before adding a 4th planet to the search, then find a flyby with 4 planets before searching for a 5th. If the "2nd Encounter" planet is set to "none" then a 2-body porkchop plot will be made.

2) Pick an earliest search start date and length of the search period for each body. Note that default values are in place when you begin. Flyby Finder only uses 'Earth time' of 24-hour days and 365-day years. Not too much error checking in place yet, so make sure you enter a number in each box. 

3)Pick a starting orbital altitude for the first body and the final altitude at the ending planet. There are also default values in place for these. These are the circular orbit altitudes that the program assumes you will be starting from and ending at in order to calculate the boost/deboost delta V's.

4) Hit the "Begin Search" button. Thanks to the defaults you can just hit this first to see what the program does.

5) If you are searching near a place where flybys are possible then a list of flybys will appear and grow in the text grid. The box in the lower right labeled "Flybys Found" will keep a tally as they are found. The "checking day" box shows where it is searching. When the program has finished the search a green "Search Complete" will appear under the Begin Search button. Often no flybys will be found where you are looking. Try searching somewhen else, or try increasing the "Max V at SOI" value, which raises the maximum starting delta V limit that the program will pursue. Raising Max V higher than about 12000m/s can start including hyperbolic transfers, and the program cuts these out to run faster, so it is not recommended.

6) You can scroll through the list (if you click on a cell first you can use your mousewheel to scroll), or hit the "Show Graph" button to see the data field represented graphically. Hit "Show Table" to get back to the table. You can also sort the entries in the list by various criteria shown in the "Sort" box that appears under the table when a search has found flybys. You can see a detailed description of a particular flight by double-clicking on it in the table. New for 0.80 you have some diplay options for the graph as well.

7) When you want to do a new search, enter the new inputs and hit begin search again. The old search results will automatically be cleared, but the 'clear' button can also be used to get rid of the odl data. You can change all of the 'search start date' fields at the same time by using the 'Increment' button. This is handly when you want to do a fine search of a large area at, say, 50 days at a time. 

8) There is a time format converter in the lower left of the screen. It shows a chosen time in 4 formats. The 3 with 'convert' buttons next to them can be used as the source time, if you hit the convert button next to them all other times will be converted to that time. So for instance if you enter '2015', '2', '1' into the Gregorian time fields and hit the middle 'convert' button, the equivalent KSP Y:D:H:M time, KSP UT day, and KSP UT seconds values will be given.

9) As of 0.80 a new variable, "Search steps per period", (SSPP) is available. This sets how many points are searched in the search period, the default of 100 is recommended for most searches, but if you want to get a more detailed look at a large region (say a 10000 day search period) you can raise SSPP up to where the total searches found will not exceed 4500. Beware, the program runs much slower this way, increasing SSPP by 5x will increase the run time by 25x.  


See the forum at: http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/80978-Flyby-Finder-for-KSP
for a detailed primer on using FF.

 